---
layout: post-common-stem
title: The family of cephalosporins 
date: 2022-12-02 10:00:09 +0200
categories: health
---
According to the nomenclature established by the World Health Organization (WHO) to devise international nonproprietary names (INNs), the INNs of antibiotics derived from cephalosporanic acid (i.e. cephalosporins) start with the commons stem **cef-**.

The cephalosporins are usually classified by "generation", based on their order of appearance on the market and increasing activity agains Gram-negative bacteria. However, there is no universal consensus regarding the details of this classification.

We have identified 17 drugs whose INNs contain this common stem.

*Cefaclor*, *cefadroxil*, *cefalexin*, and *cefazolin* are first-generation cephalosporins. *Cefamandole*, *cefoxitin* and *cefuroxime* are second-generation cephalosporins. *Cefixime*, *cefotaxime*, *cefpodoxime*, *ceftazidime* (combined with *avibactam* in Zavicefta°), *ceftolozane* (combined with *tazobactam* in Zerbaxa°), *ceftriaxone* and *ceftazidime* (combined with *avibactam* in Zavicefta°) are third-generation cephalosporins. *Cefepime*  is a so-called fourth-generation cephalosporin, while *ceftaroline fosamil* (Zinfuro°) is a so-called fifth-generation, and *ceftobiprole medocaril* (Zeftera°) is also sometimes classed with the fifth-generation cephalosporins.

*Cefiderocol* (Fetcroja°) is a cephalosporin which is conjugated to a siderophore, a compound which facilitates entry of the antibiotics into bacterial cytoplasm.

The adverse effects of the cephalosporins are those of antibiotics in general, including diarrhoea, pseudomembranous colitis, candidiasis, bleeding, and increased bacterial antibiotic resistance. In addition, cephalosporins carry the risks associated with beta-lactams, including allergic reactions, serum sickness, serious skin rashes, neuropsychiatric disorders (confusion, myoclonus, coma, hallucinations), haemotological disorders (agranulocytosis, haemolytic aneamia), renal injury (interstitial nephritis), hepatobiliary disorders and pneumonitis with pulmonary infiltrates.

@Prescrire International (Septembre 2022, Volume31, Issue 240, Page 213)
