---
layout: post
title: What is HL7 ?
date:   2022-10-09 10:00:09 +0200
categories: HL7
permalink: /:categories/:title
caption: <a href="https://www.freepik.com/free-vector/geomorphology-abstract-concept-vector-illustration-geomorphology-type-geomorphic-process-earth-science-university-discipline-graduate-study-geology-course-applied-study-abstract-metaphor_11668288.htm#query=fundamentals&position=22&from_view=search&track=sph">Image by vectorjuice</a> on Freepik
image: intro.png
---
The health care sytems face difficulties in the exchange of medical and financial informations.
Implementing standards for communication is one of the solution.
HL7 standards has been builted for this purpose.

<br>

## Health Level Seven

HL7 is an acronym, it means **Health Level Seven**. 
The number seven refers to the seven layer of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model.

Now, lets have a look on the history of HL7 foundation.

<br>

## A brief history

The HL7 is a non-profit American National Standards Institute (ANSI). It was founded in 1987 by a group of hospital information technology users in the USA.

Their purpose was to produce a standard for the exchange of data with hospital information systems.

HL7 has become the globally authoritative Standards Development Organization (SDO) healthcare systems interoperability.

Since 1994, the HL7 International organization has been accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) as a Standards Developing Organization (SDO) for the USA.

There are 2300 members in 55 countries who contribute in the developpment of HL7 standards.

Here you will find the HL7 **official website** : [hl7.org](http://www.hl7.org/).

<br>

## About communication standards 

Information communication is a key component in any systems.

There are five main challenges which complicate the information exchange and need to be solve.

+ The exponential increase of interfaces with the connected systems.
+ The difference between technologies and development languages.
+ The complexity of the informations exchange between the interfaces.
+ The structute of communication e.g the syntax.
+ The meaning of communication e.g the semantics.

One of the solution is to use a standard language that provides the **interoperability** between systems or components.

<br>

## Interoperability

*The ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and use the information that has been exchanged*.

Exchange is known as **functional** interoperability, whereas the capacity to understand and use shared information is called **semantic** interoperability.

Altough the solutions may appear to be more complex to implement, they can be adapted and scaled to many different scenarios.

<br>

## Steps for development

Specific HL7 International Work Groups concentrate on various areas or "domains" of healthcare information exchange.

The output of the Work Groups must get the consensus and approval of a representation of the HL7 International membership before a standard may be published.

A healthcare interoperability standard is generally developed in five stages : 

+ Identification of issues and scopes. 
+ Conceptualization of a solution.
+ Creation fo the standard specification.
+ Adoption by the rest of the industry.
+ Certification for some cases.

Since a decade, we have entered the era of big data.
Data are gathered, exchanged, collected and secured in any public or private institute.

Health care systems must have a stable and standard way of communicating and store their data.

Otherwise, lack of standards may conduct to a get out of hand.