---
layout: post
title: Brief report about V2.x message
date: 2022-10-26 10:00:09 +0200
categories: health
permalink: blog/:categories/:title
image: post_3.png
caption: <a href="https://www.freepik.com/free-vector/messenger-window-icon-vector-illustration-isolated-background_21467911.htm#page=2&query=message&position=12&from_view=search&track=sph">Image by Rochak Shukla</a>
---
On September, I enrole in a 8 weeks online course about HL7 fundamentals.
This course introduce us to the HL7 standards language which are use to communicate between healthcare application.

You can find more informations on my firts posts [here]({% link _posts/2022-10-09-intro-to-hl7.md %}).
Also, on the official website: [hl7 org](https://www.hl7.org/).

This course was supposed to be beginner friendly.
Even if we don't need to implement anything, it's better to have some basics computer programming knowledges.

From my point of view, some basics may be:

+ What is the OSI model and how it work.
+ What are the main types of programming languages and understand how they work.
+ How to use a code editor.

Each of these points don't need a deep understanding.
But, you know, the more you master a concept the faster you go.

## 1. What is a V2.x Message ?

The purpose of editing a V2.x message is to communicate data between systems.

Each message is created from the following:

+ Segments
+ Fields
+ Components
+ Sub-components
+ Repeats
+ Delimiter characters

An example extract from the course:

```text
MSH|^~\&|MegaReg|UABHospC|ImgOrdMgr|UABImgCtr|20010529090132-0500||ADT^A04|01052902|P|2.3.1<CR>
EVN|A04|200105290900||||200105290900<CR>
PID|||56782445^^^UAReg^PI~999855750^^^USSSA^SS||KLEINSAMPLE^BARRY^Q^JR||19620910|M||C
|260 GOODWIN CREST DRIVE^^BIRMINGHAM^AL^35209^^H|||||||0105I30001<CR>
PV1||O||||||24680^CASEY^BEN^Z^^^MD^^^UAMC^L|67890^GRAINGER^LUCY^X^^^MD^^^UAMC^L||||
||A0<CR>
OBX|1|NM|HT^HEIGHT^99LOC||71|in^inches^ANSI+|||||F<CR>
OBX|2|NM|WT^WEIGHT^99LOC||175|lb^pounds^ANSI+|||||F<CR>
AL1|1|DA|ASP^ASPIRIN^99LOC2|MO|GI DISTRESS<CR>
```

Name of each segments:

| Segments   |           Name              |
| :--------: | :-------------------------: |
|   MSH      | Message Header              |
|   EVN      | Event Type                  |
|   PID      | Patient Identification      |
|   PV1      | Patient Visit               |
|   OBX      | Observation and Result      |
|   AL1      | Patient Allergy Information |

You can find more informations about the structure, the trigger events, the segments and the datatypes on the [HL7-Definition V2 reference site](https://hl7-definition.caristix.com/v2/).

As you can see, segment is a logical group of data fields. Some are required, other are optional. Some occur only once, other may be allowed to repeat.

The first segment (MSH) identifies the type of message and the trigger event. He is always present.

A field is a string of characters defined by an HL7 data type. Depending on its data type, a field can have one or more components.
When the component contains multiple parts, each of its parts is called a "subcomponent".

In constructing a message, certain special characters are used.
With exception of the Segment Terminator `<CR>`, these delimiters are defined by the first two fields of the MSH segment.

```text
MSH|^~\&|
```

## 2. The HL7 python package

Python has lots of libraries.
I use the HL7 package to better understand the structure of the message.
A useful tool to catch the right index of each fields and construct a XML message from.

More informations about this documentation click [here](https://python-hl7.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

It's not rocket science. 😅
